= OpenLaszlo Rails Plugin

The Open<tt></tt>Laszlo Rails plugin makes it easy to use
OpenLaszlo[openlaszlo.org] client-side applications with Rails.  It
includes a generator and helper for creating Open<tt></tt>Laszlo applications
and displaying them within Rails views.

For example, the following shell command will create an Open<tt></tt>Laszlo application named +applet+, and a view named <tt>controller/index</tt>.  Requesting the view will recompile the applet.
  $ ./script/generate applet contact applet


=== View Helper

The plugin introduces two view helpers.  +swfobject_tag+ generates
code that embeds a flash object in the page (using the
swfobject[http://code.google.com/p/swfobject/] JavaScript library).
+applet_tag+ additionally recompiles the applet if it is out of date,
and swaps in a version of the applet compiled with the debug flag set
if the +debug+ query parameter is present in the request that resulted
in the call -- both of these additional features are available only in
development mode.


=== Generators

The plugin defines the following generators, that can be used to
quickly create an Open<tt></tt>Laszlo stub application and a view that displays
it.

This generates an Open<tt></tt>Laszlo source file in <tt>app/applets/my-app</tt>:
  $ ./script/generate applet my-app

This also creates a model and view at <tt>/my-controller/index</tt>
that displays the applet.  When the app's source changes, requesting
the view recompiles the app.
  $ ./script/generate applet my-app my-controller index


=== Rails Tasks

The plugin defines the following tasks:
  # Recompile any applets in the app/applets directory
  rake openlaszlo:build:applets

  # Clean the applets directory
  rake openlaszlo:clobber:applets

  # Copies the swfobject javascripts to public/javascripts
  rake openlaszlo:install:javascripts


== Requirements

* Rails 2.0 or later.  (Might work with earlier versions, but is untested with them.)
* {OpenLaszlo 3.1 or later}[openlaszlo.org]
* The {OpenLaszlo ruby gem}[github.com/osteele/ropenlaszlo]


== Installation (using templates; for Rails 2.3 or later)

In Rails 2.3 or later, you can use the Rails template mechanism to install
the Open<tt></tt>Laszlo plugin and the gem that it depends on.

The template requires that you give it <tt>sudo</tt> access, in order
to run <tt>sudo rake gems:install</tt>.  If you don't want to or can't
do this, you can use the instructions for previous versions of Rails
below.

To create a new Rails app:
  rails webapp -m http://gist.github.com/83809.txt

To upgrade an existing app:
  rake rails:template LOCATION=http://gist.github.com/83809.txt

To create a new Rails app, or upgrade an existing one, *and* create
a starter applet that's served from <tt>/home/applet</tt>, do one of:
  generate=myapp rails webapp -m http://gist.github.com/83809.txt
  generate=myapp rake rails:template LOCATION=http://gist.github.com/83809.txt


== Installation (Rails 2.1 or later)

0: Install Open<tt></tt>Laszlo, Ruby, and Ruby on Rails.

1: In <tt>config/environment</tt>, place the following code inside the <tt>Rails::Initializer.run</tt> block:
  config.gem 'ropenlaszlo', :lib => 'openlaszlo', :version => '>= 0.6.3'

2: Install the {ropenlaszlo}[github.com/osteele/ropenlaszlo] gem:
  $ sudo rake gems:install

3: Install this plugin:
  $ ./script/plugin install git://github.com/osteele/openlaszlo-plugin.git

4: Set the +OPENLASZLO_HOME+ environment variable to the directory that contains the Open<tt></tt>Laszlo SDK.  The first line below is an example of this in bash (although
you will probably want to put this in your <tt>.bashrc</tt> or <tt>.profile</tt> too).
If you're not using Windows, the second line of shell script will tell you whether you've set it right.
  $ export OPENLASZLO_HOME="/Applications/OpenLaszlo Server 4.2.0.2"
  $ grep -qs Laszlo "$OPENLASZLO_HOME/README.txt" && echo yes || echo no


== Usage

In your RAILS application directory:

1: Create an applet, and a view that displays it:
  $ ./script/generate applet my-applet controller index

2: Compile the applet (this step is optional):
  $ rake openlaszlo:build:applets

Now launch the server (<tt>script/server</tt>), and you can view your applet at <tt>ht</tt><tt>tp:127.0.0.1:3000/controller/index</tt>.


== Using the Compile Server

The steps described above use the Open<tt></tt>Laszlo command-line compiler to compile applications.  A faster technique, although one that requires more configuration, is to leave the Open<tt></tt>Laszlo server running as a compile server.

The instructions for setting up an Open<tt></tt>Laszlo compile server are {here}[http://wiki.github.com/osteele/openlaszlo-plugin/using-the-compile-server].



== Resources

* {OpenLaszlo Plugin Rubyforge project page}[rubyforge.org/projects/laszlo-plugin]
* {OpenLaszlo Plugin Github repository}[github.com/osteele/openlaszlo-plugin]
* {OpenLaszlo Plugin Wiki}[wiki.github.com/osteele/openlaszlo-plugin]
* {OpenLaszlo Site}[openlaszlo.org]
* {OpenLaszlo Gem project page}[github.com/osteele/ropenlaszlo]
* {swfobject}[http://code.google.com/p/swfobject/]


== Authors

* {Oliver Steele}[osteele.com]
* Max Carlson
